>> New technology may
help scientists discover
extraterrestrial life on
other planets in just days.
This is Gaia News.
Scientists at the
Ohio State University
have just announced that by
using the James Webb Space
Telescope, scheduled
to launch this fall,
they may be able to
detect biosignatures
on gas dwarf planets.
These biosignatures,
such as ammonia,
could be a sign of life.
And with new
technology, they may
be able to make this distinction
in as little as 60 hours.
But what exactly do
they mean by life?
Astronomer and Gaia News
contributor Marc Dantonio
on this announcement.
>> We don't mean you
and me, life like us.
We're advanced forms of life.
We're talking about microbial
life at the very, very least--
very primitive life.
We're looking for that at Mars.
Mars may have life
beneath the polar caps.
For instance, in
the water that's
running beneath, say,
the south pole of Mars.
There's a reservoir down
there that could have life.
We don't know, because
we're not there.
We can't get into that to see.
If it's advanced
life, well, that's
just a real boon to
everybody, you know?
But right now it's
just microbial.
>> What exactly
are biosignatures?
>> A biosignature is
just what it sounds like,
a biological signature of life.
OK?
In our atmosphere,
our biosignatures
are methane and oxygen, and
to some extent carbon dioxide.
So it's possible that
the biosignatures
around another planet might
include some more exotic gases,
things like ammonia.
Ammonia is a biological
signature as well.
It's in our atmosphere as well,
usually expelled by bacteria.
Well, if we can see ammonia in
the atmospheres of gas giant
planets around other stars,
then what that kind of fosters
is the potential
for there being life
in the atmosphere of these
larger gas giant planets.
It's been hypothesized that even
here in our solar system, Venus
of all places
might actually have
life floating in the clouds
above the sulfuric acid layers.
And that's one of the things
that the JWST, the James Webb
Space Telescope, can look for.
>> What's so special about the
much anticipated James Webb
Space Telescope?
>> The James Webb Telescope
is a fascinating instrument,
because unlike the Hubble it's
going to have several times
the mirror size.
And it's also going
to be taking in light
that's in the infrared--
so beyond what you can
see with your eyes.
Your eyes see a narrow range.
Hubble sees that range.
And it has some
rudimentary ability
to go into the infrared
of course, as well.
But the James Webb
Space Telescope
is designed specifically to
look into the infrared realm.
Now, why wouldn't we
want to go visual?
Because visual only
can tell us so much.
The infrared can
tell us a lot more.
For instance, if we look in the
infrared at a distant planet
around another star, we
might be able to detect
two molecules that might
indicate that there's
oxygen in the atmosphere.
Now, that of course, is a
biosignature for life like us.
For photosynthesis, we
have algae and plankton
on this planet, which
generate oxygen. In fact, they
generate the bulk of the
oxygen in our atmosphere.
If we look at the other planets,
other worlds with the James
Webb Space Telescope,
we can look
at the spectra of
the atmosphere,
break the light up, and deduce
what's in the atmosphere.
And if we can see
signatures of carbon dioxide
and some other elements,
maybe some ammonia,
then that tells us whether there
might be significant enough
amounts to warrant
saying this planet
looks like it might
have microbial life
in its atmosphere.
>> How is the world of
astronomy reacting to this news?
>> We're very excited.
In the astronomy world, I
know that other astronomers
are very excited about it.
This is something that's
very, very important.
And we can't stress enough that
the main goal of the human race
is to find others out
there like us if we can.
Why?
Hey, look, we don't
want to be alone.
This planet is big as well.
I mean, we can get
lost on this planet
and never see another person
for the rest of our lives
if we want to.
On the cosmic scale, we'd like
to know that the universe is
not an empty place.
And that's what we're doing.
>> Are we alone?
Is there life somewhere
out there in the universe?
We may be on our
way to finding out.
As Caprice Phillips, one
of the lead researchers
on this project, wrote,
quote, "For the first time,
we have the scientific
knowledge and the technological
capabilities to
realistically begin
to find the answers
to these questions."
For a new perspective,
this is Gaia News.